# Genovo ##
Welcome to Genovo World. We are Shenzhen_BGIC_0101_2013 team.
Please step to  [project page](http://igemsoftware.github.io/Shenzhen_BGIC_0101_2013) for better view. :)
## What we do 
* NeoChr

> Neochr module would assist users to grab related genes in different pathways manually, 
to rewire genes’ relationship logically*, and to replace genes with ortholog that score higher*. 

* NucleoMod 

> NucleoMod is a module to modity CDS sequence of genes which generated by Neochr module. This module contains 5 plugins: CRISPR design, erase enzyme site, create enzyme site, codon optimization, repeat smash. All of these plugin is allow user to change or optimize the gene. After NucleoMod operation, the next step is SegmMan to design synthestic method according to the length of chromosome.

* SegmMan

> This module will grab genes’ detail information in KEGG Makeup Language (KGML) file which can be downloaded in KEGG or get through KEGG API, and it will establish a new standard for data transmission which will convert XML format into JSON format and simplify structures. Furthermore, this module will export genes’ list and its relationships. Choose one pathway and this module will visualize the pathway and rebuild it in the level of genes.


=============================================

## install Guid
Our software are totally based on JBrowse which is next-generation of GBrowse. If you have install JBrowse, just pull git and use.

### Install JBrowse
   > To install JBrowse, see the main JBrowse wiki at http://gmod.org/wiki/JBrowse.
   
   > ### For Short Description: 
   * unzip the Download file in www root folder
   `(/home/www is recommand and  do not use /var/www/ as that need root permission)`
   * cd jbrowse
   * ./install.sh # Install all perl package needed with cpan, If all goes well, you can open http://localhost/jbrowse/index.html?data=sample_data/json/volvox

### Software Requirment 
 * perl5
 * php5 ( for REST api and backend server )
 * Apache
 * Linux ( Tested on Debian )
 * git ( for version control plugin )
 * Biopython and UNAFoldt ( for chip plugin )
 * Blast+ ( for NucleoMod Plugin )
 * ` Chrome, Firefox, and IE10 is recommand`

### Permissoin Requirment
 `Writable data, plugin/tmp_data, server/tmp_data, jbrowse_conf.json`

 `Executable ./bin/  ./server/bin/  ./plugin/bin`

### Install NucleoMod Plugin
> NucleoMod depend on Blast+, So if you use Debian based System:
   `apt-get install ncbi-blast+`
 
> Or you can Install From:
`ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/executables/blast+/LATEST/` 

### Install Chip Plugin
Download and install UNAFoldt and Biopython from:
>  * UnaFold
    	http://dinamelt.rit.albany.edu/download.php
 * Biopython:
		http://biopython.org/DIST/docs/install/Installation.html

### install version control plugin
> `git is needed`

### Any other Plugins is portable

===================================================

## Genovo Server Side Tutrorial

### Folder Structure : 
```
./data/    
   |-NeoChr_5_add          # NeoChr Plugin, name as "NeoChr_{weekday}"
   |---01.whole2mega       # SegmMan plugin  data
   |---02.globalREmarkup   # SegmMan plugin  data
   |---03.mega2chunk2mini  # SegmMan plugin  data
   |---chip_data           # chip design
   |---names               # prefix for search
   |---seq                 # crc32 encode refsequence  name path
   |-----d7f
   |-------417
   |---------f1
   |---tracks             # track display in browser
   |-----gene             # track cluster
   |-------NeoChr         # Genome Name 
   |-----part
   |-------NeoChr
   |-----Transcript
   |-------NeoChr
```
```
 ./server/
   |-bin
   |---chip_new           # create new chip data 
   |-----ols-pool-generation-script
   |-------output-oligos-and-primers
   |---GetPrice           # fetch enzyme price
   |---segmentation       # SegmMod plugin 
   |-config               # plugins config data
   |---features            
   |---geneset
   |---globalREmarkup
   |---markers
   |---Optimize
   |-doc                    # document about plugins
   |-lib                    # library used
   |-pathway                # pathway data used 
   |-REST                   # end-side REST implement
   |-------chip
   |-------features
   |-------modify
   |-------Segmentation
   |-------stats
   |---config
   |-rewire
```

## REST API
```
base_url = server/REST/index.php

# output genes data by refname and pos
GET base_url/features/SearchByLocation?refname&start&end   
POST base_url/features/delete

# output git verison control for unroll data
GET base_url/stats/version/(?<dataset>\w+)

# get pathway resource
GET base_url/pathway/nav

# create and decouple from order genelist data
POST base_url/decouple?refname&

# add loxp, centremele, ARS and so on
POST	/modify/Add

#  SegmMod plugin 
POST 	/Segmentation/globalREmarkup
	        /Segmentation/mega2chunk2mini
	        /Segmentation/whole2mega
GET  	/Segmentation/info
	
# Nucleo plugin
POST     /NucleoMod

# chip plugin
POST	/chip/chip

GET 	/stats/config 

# for get downloadable data information
GET /data/info

```

Besides, our server side implement is flexable. User can config server side data for power usage.


===================================================

# Medals Requirement

##Bronze Medal

*  1 Register the team, have a great summer, and have fun attending the Jamboree
*  2 Create and share a description of the team's project via the iGEM wiki
  * [Overview of project](http://2013.igem.org/Team:Shenzhen_BGIC_0101/Home)
* 3 Present a Poster and Talk at the iGEM Jamboree.
* 4 Develop and make available via the The Registry of Software Tools an open source software tool that supports synthetic biology based on BioBrick standard biological parts
  * Our software in Github

> Note:
Our giant software aims at operating Biobrick of device level based on synthesized DNA fragments.
> But for biobrick level, the second module can also assist users to design genes, such as deletion of [EcorI, XbaI, SpeI, PstI, Not I in the CDS, codon optimization and repeat smash. ](link_to_module_2)

## Silver Medal

* 1.A Provide a detailed, draft specification for the next version of your software tool.

> As our project is so [large and extensible greatly, at least 5 ideas](link) can't be realized due to time limitation.

*  1.B Provide a second, distinct (yet complementary) software tools project.

> For the third module SegmMan, we have a complementary design & synthesis method OLS chip synthesis(link), so that Genovo is compatible for both synthesizer and chip.

* 2  Provide a demonstration of their software either as a textual or video tutorial made available on their wiki.

> [Textual tutorial](link)

# Gold Medal
* 1 Have another team utilize the software developed by your team. You must clearly show how your software was used and the results that were obtained.

>   
* [We have software team Shenzhen_BGIC_ATCG to use the second module to design their genes](link).
* [SC2.0 project also try out SegmMan module on chrVII’s segmentation](http://2013.igem.org/Team:Shenzhen_BGIC_0101/Software).

* 2 .A Outline and detail how your software effects Human Practices in Synthetic Biology.

> Share:
* Web-based server for public to use
* Software assessment and comparison with Biostudio.
* Regional workshop

> Innovation:
* [We interview with core leader, Dr. Patrick Yizhi Cai and talk about Genovo’s design and application.](http://2013.igem.org/Team:Shenzhen_BGIC_0101/Team)
 
> Advertisement:
* We tried to sell our team shirts to people from BGI.

* 2 .B Use SBOL in your software documentation.

> We use SBOL as one of the output of first module to describe the genes in new created pathway.

* 3 .A. Develop and document a new technical standard that supports one of the following:

> Design of BioBrick Parts or Devices : 
  * [Chromosome Design Standard](http://2013.igem.org/Team:Shenzhen_BGIC_0101/Software)
  * [Design Operation Standard](http://2013.igem.org/Team:Shenzhen_BGIC_0101/Software)

> Construction of BioBrick Parts or Devices : 
  * [Assembly Strategy Standard](http://2013.igem.org/Team:Shenzhen_BGIC_0101/Software)
